---
applyTo: '**/*craft*/**/docs/**/*.rst, **/*craft*/**/docs/**/*.md'
---

<!-- Auto-generated by groups/starcraft/instructions/documentation/scripts/compile-llm-instructions.py. -->

# Add a page meta description

Search engines present options for the user to consider. Each search result contains at minimum the page's title, snippet, and icon. From these elements, the user chooses what pages to visit.

A *meta description* is a short summary that search engines often reuse for the search result's snippet. Since the meta description helps the user decide in advance whether a page contains what they seek, it has a direct impact on whether the user visits our documentation. Therefore, **all new pages in a product's documentation must include a meta description.**

## Format a meta description

At the top of a page, add this structure:

``` rst
.. meta::
    :description: <description>
```

The meta description must be one line, because Sphinx options don't support line breaks.

## Write a meta description

**Do** write the meta description *after* the page is written. The meta description is a reflection of what's actually on the page.

**Do** reuse text from the page itself when it's convenient.

**Do** share descriptions between documents with the same formats. For example, use the same meta description for every page of release notes, but replace the version number.

**Do** frame sentences in terms of *actions* and *facts*.

<table>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>Type</th>
<th>Starts with phrases like...</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Action</p></td>
<td><p>Get started with</p>
<p>Learn about</p>
<p>Find information about</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Fact</p></td>
<td><p>The encabulator is a circuit that</p>
<p>The Chef init profile sets up a basic project file for</p>
<p>Starcraft is compatible with</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

**Do** put key terms near the start.

**Do** aim for an average of 140 characters. Cut any detail about the topic that isn't essential to helping the user make a decision.

**Don't** exceed 160 characters. Search engines will cut the snippet short.

**Don't** write to market, motivate, or compel. Marketing prose with rhetoric like the following isn't appropriate for documentation.

> Don't just write code; deliver a product. Start your journey today and turn your project into a production-ready snap.

**Don't** include qualities or claims like *simple*, *easy*, or *best-in-class*.

**Don't** include key terms that aren't on the page.

**Don't** use pronouns such as *you*, *your*, *we*, or *our*. These waste space and don't match the tone of a description.

## Example

This is an example of a good meta description for *Set up Starcraft*.

``` rst
.. meta::
    :description: Learn how to install Starcraft on a local system. Starcraft is available as a snap on all GNU/Linux systems that support systemd.
```
