.. 13115.md

.. _desktop-files-for-menu-integration:

Desktop files for menu integration
==================================

`Desktop entry files <https://specifications.freedesktop.org/desktop-entry-spec/desktop-entry-spec-latest.html#introduction>`__ are used to add an application to the `desktop menu <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Start_menu>`__. These files specify the name and icon of your application, the `categories <https://specifications.freedesktop.org/menu-spec/latest/apa.html>`__ it belongs to, related search keywords and more. These files have the extension ``.desktop`` and follow the XDG Desktop Entry Specification version 1.1.

   ⓘ **Note:** The application icon specified in the desktop entry will be used in the desktop menu and the dock, but *not* in the snap store and other graphical store frontends. The snap store uses the icon specified in :ref:`the icon field <snapcraft-top-level-metadata-icon>` in :file:`snapcraft.yaml` file.

This documentation explains how to add these desktop files to your snap so that your application is automatically added to the desktop menu during installation.

There are three methods to tell snapcraft which desktop entry files to use.

-  :ref:`Put the desktop entry file in the snap/gui directory. <desktop-files-snap-gui>`.
-  :ref:`Use the desktop key in the app definition <desktop-files-desktop-key>` to point to a desktop file in the prime directory.
-  :ref:`Use the desktop entry file from the AppStream metadata <meta-appstream>` of your application.


.. _desktop-files-snap-gui:

Desktop entry files in the ``snap/gui`` directory
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The desktop file and icon should be in the folder ``snap/gui/`` in the source folder for your snap. They should be named ``snap-name.desktop`` and ``snap-name.png`` where ``snap-name`` matches the ``name:`` entry in the :file:`snapcraft.yaml` file.

   ⓘ **Note:** When you run :command:`snapcraft`, the entire contents of ``snap/gui`` will be copied into the ``meta/gui/`` folder of the resulting snap.

The ``Exec=`` line is used to specify which application to run when the user clicks on this desktop entry. It should point to the application in the ``apps:`` section of :file:`snapcraft.yaml`.

::

   Exec=app-name

Where ``app-name`` matches the name of the program in the ``apps:`` section of :file:`snapcraft.yaml` or an approved alias. *Note that this is the same (case sensitive) name used to run the snapped application from the commandline.*

The ``Icon=`` line specifies the absolute path of the icon of the application. This icon will represent the application in the desktop menu and the dock. This path should point to the location of the icon *after the snap is installed*.

::

   Icon=${SNAP}/meta/gui/snapname.png

Since :command:`snapcraft` copies all the contents of the ``snap/gui/`` folder to ``meta/gui``, the absolute path of the icon in the installed snap will be ``${SNAP}/meta/gui/snapname.png``.


.. _desktop-files-desktop-key:

Use the ``desktop`` key to point to the entry file
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Some applications already generate ``desktop`` files as part of the build process. In that case, it might be easier to use the ``desktop`` key of the application because this takes a path relative to :ref:`the prime directory <parts-lifecycle-parts-directories>`, so you can insert a path to the generated desktop entry file.

Using this method, the desktop entry file can have any name. During a build, ``snapcraft`` will properly rename the desktop launcher, based on which app definition the ``desktop`` key is part of.

In this example, the desktop file is generated by the build system and placed in the folder ``usr/share/applications/``, relative from the root of the resulting snap. Since the ``prime`` folder is what eventually becomes the snap, we specify ``usr/share/applications/com.github.johnfactotum.Foliate.desktop`` as the path to the desktop file.

.. code:: yaml

   apps:
     foliate:
       command: desktop-launch $SNAP/usr/bin/com.github.johnfactotum.Foliate
       desktop: usr/share/applications/com.github.johnfactotum.Foliate.desktop
       plugs:
         - desktop
         - desktop-legacy
       ...

During a build, snapcraft will also try to change the ``Icon=`` path in the desktop entry file. However, you need to make sure that the ``Icon=`` path is accessible from the ``prime`` folder. This example replaces the icon path after pulling the source.

.. code:: yaml

   parts:
     foliate:
       plugin: meson
       meson-parameters: [--prefix=/snap/foliate/current/usr]
       override-pull: |
         snapcraftctl pull

         # Point icon to the correct location
         sed -i.bak -e 's|Icon=com.github.johnfactotum.Foliate|Icon=/usr/share/icons/hicolor/scalable/apps/com.github.johnfactotum.Foliate.svg|g' data/com.github.johnfactotum.Foliate.desktop.in
       ...

What happens during installation of your snap
---------------------------------------------

During installation, snapd copies the desktop files of the snap to ``/var/lib/snapd/desktop/applications/``. The keys ``DBusActivatable``, ``TryExec`` and ``Implements`` are currently not supported and will be silently removed from the desktop file on install. Lines with unknown keys will also be silently removed.

Further reading
---------------

-  :ref:`How to snap a desktop application <desktop-applications>`
