.TH snapcraft 1 "19 July 2016" "version 2.13"
.SH NAME
Snapcraft - Snapcraft is a delightful packaging tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
snapcraft [options] <command>

snapcraft (-h | --help)

snapcraft --version
.SH DESCRIPTION
Snapcraft helps you assemble a whole project in a single tree out of many pieces. It can drive a very wide range of build and packaging systems, so that you can simply list all the upstream projects you want and have them built and installed together as a single tree.
.SH OPTIONS
--help
    Prints the available Snapcraft commands.

--version
    Prints the version of Snapcraft currently installed on your system.

.SH GENERAL COMMANDS
init
    Initialize a snapcraft project.

list-plugins
    List the available plugins that handle different types of part.

login
    Authenticate session against Ubuntu One SSO.

logout
    Clear session credentials.

register
    Register the package name in the store.

tour
    Setup the snapcraft examples tour in the specified directory, or ./snapcraft-tour/.

push
    Pushes and optionally releases a snap to the Ubuntu Store.

release
    Release a revision of a snap to a specific channel.

.SH LIFECYCLE COMMANDS
snapcraft without a command will default to snap.

clean
    Remove content - cleans downloads, builds or install artifacts.

cleanbuild
    Create a snap using a clean environment managed by lxd.
    This command requires a properly setup lxd environment that can connect to external networks.
    Refer to the "Ubuntu Desktop and Ubuntu Server" section on https://linuxcontainers.org/lxd/getting-started-cli to get started.

pull
    Download or retrieve artifacts defined for a part.

build
    Build artifacts defined for a part. Build systems capable of running parallel build jobs will do so unless "--no-parallel-build" is specified.

stage
    Stage the part's built artifacts into the common staging area.

prime
    Final copy and preparation for the snap.

snap
    Create a snap.

.SH PARTS ECOSYSTEM COMMANDS
update
    Updates the parts listing from the cloud.

define
    Shows the definition for the cloud part.

search
    Searches the remotes part cache for matching parts.

.SH REPORTING BUGS
To report a bug in Snapcraft, navigate to Launchpad: https://bugs.launchpad.net/snapcraft/+filebug

.SH CONTRIBUTE
Refer to our contributing guide to start contributing: https://github.com/snapcore/snapcraft/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md

.SH MAILING LIST
Send an email to snapcraft@lists.snapcraft.io
